Adding a FAQ section (#59)
cppalliance/safe-cpp: proposal/draft.md

# FAQ

* [What is the goal?](#what-is-the-goal)
* [Will Safe C++ break my code?](#will-safe-c-break-my-code)
* [Why does this proposal introduce a whole new standard library (std2)?](#why-does-this-proposal-introduce-a-whole-new-standard-library-std2)
* [Why do we need to borrow Rust's borrow checker?](#why-do-we-need-to-borrow-rusts-borrow-checker)
* [Why not use Hylo's approach?](#why-not-use-hylos-approach)
* [Why not use safety profiles?](#why-not-use-safety-profiles)
* [Why do the safe language alternatives to unsafe c++ language constructs use Rust names rather than existing C++ names?](#why-do-the-safe-language-alternatives-to-unsafe-c-language-constructs-use-rust-names-rather-than-existing-c-names)
* [I do not like the proposed syntax, why is it so ugly?](#i-do-not-like-the-proposed-syntax-why-is-it-so-ugly)
* [Why is `std::*` missing from `std2`?](#why-is-std-missing-from-std2)
* [Won't `std2` lead to an extreme function coloring problem?](#wont-std2-lead-to-an-extreme-function-coloring-problem)
* [Are there runtime checks?](#are-there-runtime-checks)

> * [There's promising research that could yield a solution that is both more simple and more elegant than rust-style borrow checking. Why not wait?](#theres-promising-research-that-could-yield-a-solution-that-is-both-more-simple-and-more-elegant-than-rust-style-borrow-checking.-why-not-wait)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Aren’t there some other promising experiments supposedly on the horizon that could yield a simpler and more-elegant solution than Rust-style borrow checking. Why not wait?](#arent-there-some-other-promising-experiments-supposedly-on-the-horizon-that-could-yield-a-simpler-and-more-elegant-solution-than-rust-style-borrow-checking-why-not-wait)
```

### Why do the safe language alternatives to unsafe c++ language constructs use Rust names rather than existing C++ names?

The safe language alternatives are used in very different ways compared to their unsafe counterparts. For example, while `union` looks like a `struct` that has a single active member, a `choice` can only be interrogated by using a match-expression, guaranteeing safe access to its content.

### I do not like the proposed syntax, why is it so ugly?

Bikeshedding isn't a priority at this stage. The current syntax is the one used by the reference implementation so far.

### Why is `std::*` missing from `std2`?

This proposal is a healthy beginning but it’s not comprehensive treatment.

### Won't `std2` lead to an extreme function coloring problem?

It won't be: `safe` code can wrap unsafe calls within `unsafe` blocks and `unsafe` code can call `safe` code. Same goes for `std2` and `std` library components.

### Are there runtime checks?

Yes, there are dynamic bound checks for spatial safety.

> ### There's promising research that could yield a solution that is both more simple and more elegant than rust-style borrow checking. Why not wait?
> 
> The security community and regulators are actively pushing developers towards memory safe languages with official guidance since 2022. Does C++ stay on the do-not-use list or does C++ become a memory safe language?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Aren’t there some other promising experiments supposedly on the horizon that could yield a simpler and more-elegant solution than Rust-style borrow checking. Why not wait?

There are no other experiments on the horizon. And in the meantime, government organizations and others continue to publish document such as the [CISA “Product Security Bad Practices” guidance](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/product-security-bad-practices) containing statements like this:

> _For existing products that are written in memory-unsafe languages, not having a published memory safety roadmap by January 1, 2026 is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety._

So, we don’t have the luxury of being able to wait around for other people to eventually appear with hypothetically “better” solutions. And so the question is: What concretely can we be working on together right now to make sure that C++ gets on the _“has a published memory safety roadmap”_ by January 2026 at the latest?
```
